---
type: training
date: 2025-03-17
class_type: All Ranks
instructor: 
energy_level: 
tags: [training]
---

# Training Log - 2025-03-17

## Class Focus
Stand up 
- using collar ties
Escapes 
- front headlock from turtle
- sit out from turtle

## Techniques Covered
1. #collar-tie - how to break them effectivelly
	-  cross grip should pin their elbow to you
	- posture is up, use your head to "clamp" on their hand
	- shoulder rolls up and around/down to break the grip
	- step around, end up shoulder to shoulder - yours should be higher and applying pressure as you grip their arm with two hands.
2. When they turn to face you, blocking you with their free arm
	- their arm will be above the one you have trapped
	- throw the trapped arm up and set up for the #double-leg
	- ensure you change levels first before shooting in
3. #turtle headlock escape
	- **tip** to escape a headlock (or #rnc) always turn into the elbow/armpit
	- control the upper arm of the choking side - to help stall the choke anyway
	- turn to face that side, do sort of a turn out so you are on your hip
	- switch hips and try to get your shoulder on top of theirs - reach around to the hip or lat (it doesn't really matter) to help pull yourself up
		- the pressure of your shoulder on top of theirs is key, you want to stop them pulling that arm out
	- go for whatever you like after that.
4. #turtle - sit out
	- **tip** shift your knee, elbow to the center towards the side you want to sit out
	- if they are on their knees, go for the single leg to get them to sprawl, from there you can sit out more effectively. Sitting out when someone is on their knees may not work since they can follow you.

## Rolling Notes
### What Worked Well
- guard retention
- overhook from guard was good, but I need to capitalise on it more - get on my side?

### Areas for Improvement
- rdlr - I am getting there but not able to capitalise on it. Something to submeta.

### New Problems to Solve
- 
#### Roll with #Liam
- Duration: 20 minutes
- Position Control:
	- We had a really good flowish roll. We didn't amp it up as much as usual. Starting from thefeet
- Submission Attempts: 
	- A lot of kimura traps, but could not capitalise
- What Worked: 
	- arm drags were working well.
	- controlling the head to stop passing
- What Didn't Work:
	- rdlr.
	- He stood up a few times as I was setting things up. The "just stand up" school of thought is working well for him.
- Notes for Next Time:
	- 


### Rolling Partners
```button
name ➕ Add Rolling Partner
type command
action Templater: Open insert template modal
```

## Key Takeaways
- 

## Follow-up Items
- [ ] rdlr
- [ ] 

## Recovery Notes
- Physical state: Well rested
- Areas of soreness: None
- Recovery plans: Sleep